index.md, before:

---
title: Home
---

# The Lücken Lab (AKA Lucky lab) welcomes you to our site!

We build machine learning models on single-cell data and translate these to clinical applications predominantly in lung research. In particular, we focus on building cellular reference models of human tissues by integrating diverse single-cell datasets to improve the representation of human diversity. Using these reference models we are pioneering efforts to model patient variation, enable rapid analysis of new data, and work towards personlized medicine.

<!-- {%
  include figure.html
  image="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/115151049?s=200&v=4"
  width="65%"
%} -->

{% include section.html %}

## Highlights

{% capture text %}

Our mission is to translate single-cell tools and machine learning methods to clinical applications, with a specific focus on atlases and pulmonary research. High standards in terms of robustness and reliability are set for methods used in clinical practice. To promote translatability of our methods, we aim to apply these standards throughout our single-cell work by promoting open, community-driven benchmarking.

{%
  include button.html
  link="research"
  text="See our publications"
  icon="fa-solid fa-arrow-right"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
%}

{% endcapture %}

{%
  include feature.html
  image="images/scib.png"
  link="research"
  title="Our research"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
  text=text
%}

{% capture text %}

Our team welcomes highly motivated people from any background and any part of the world. We are a very colaborative and interactive group. We love to get together to talk about science, for coding sessions, or just to grab a drink during our breaks.

{%
  include button.html
  link="team"
  text="Meet our team"
  icon="fa-solid fa-arrow-right"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
%}

{% endcapture %}

{%
  include feature.html
  image="images/team.jpg"
  link="team"
  title="Our Team"
  text=text
%}

## Our goals

1. Build high-quality **integrated atlases**

2.  Maximize the **utility of single-cell reference atlases**
  - Specification: We aim to develop tools and pipelines to leverage atlas power in the number of represented cells and individuals to generate new insights. This includes tools to:
    - Compare model systems
    - Analyse new data
    - Model inter-individual variation
    - Model disease processes or progression

3. Determine **single-cell best practices by benchmarking**

4. Better understand **patient variability in pulmonary diseases**

5. Derive relevant **clinical/translational insights from single-cell data**

## Our values

### Scientific values:

- **Dare to innovate**: When beneficial, try a new approach instead of the tried and true that is limited. Leverage the lab’s expertise to test new approaches that solve that challenges you are facing

- **Science before ego**: We want to produce science that is robust, reproducible and open. If the data shows we are wrong, that is okay. We take time to ensure usability of our tools so that scientific goals can be achieved also outside our lab.

- **Constructive criticism is caring**: We are our own strongest critics. We aim to ask for feedback from our peers, and we are willing to be forthcoming with our own feedback. We value the time spent by others to help us improve our work.

### Interpersonal values:

- **Communicate with respect**: Communication is central to our lab culture as it is the instrument how we make each other better. To ensure the information we want to convey is received well, we strive to choose our words in such a way that treats our peers with respect.

- **Diversity in thinking and representation**: Scientific challenges are complex. This complexity is best tackled from multiple points of view. Therefore, bringing together diverse ways of thinking is crucial for scientific progress. Similarly, tolerance to diverse backgrounds is a core human value. We hold diversity of all kinds in high regard, because this helps us be better scientists and people.

- **Have fun:** If science isn’t fun, we’re doing something wrong!

Commit message:

Add location at Helmholtz Munich

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
---

# The Lücken Lab (AKA Lucky lab) welcomes you to our site!

We build machine learning models on single-cell data and translate these to clinical applications predominantly in lung research. In particular, we focus on building cellular reference models of human tissues by integrating diverse single-cell datasets to improve the representation of human diversity. Using these reference models we are pioneering efforts to model patient variation, enable rapid analysis of new data, and work towards personlized medicine.

The lab is based in the Institute of Computational Biology (ICB) at [Helmholtz Munich](https://www.helmholtz-munich.de/en/).

<!-- {%
  include figure.html
  image="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/115151049?s=200&v=4"
  width="65%"
%} -->

{% include section.html %}

## Highlights

{% capture text %}

Our mission is to translate single-cell tools and machine learning methods to clinical applications, with a specific focus on atlases and pulmonary research. High standards in terms of robustness and reliability are set for methods used in clinical practice. To promote translatability of our methods, we aim to apply these standards throughout our single-cell work by promoting open, community-driven benchmarking.

{%
  include button.html
  link="research"
  text="See our publications"
  icon="fa-solid fa-arrow-right"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
%}

{% endcapture %}

{%
  include feature.html
  image="images/scib.png"
  link="research"
  title="Our research"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
  text=text
%}

{% capture text %}

Our team welcomes highly motivated people from any background and any part of the world. We are a very colaborative and interactive group. We love to get together to talk about science, for coding sessions, or just to grab a drink during our breaks.

{%
  include button.html
  link="team"
  text="Meet our team"
  icon="fa-solid fa-arrow-right"
  flip=true
  style="bare"
%}

{% endcapture %}

{%
  include feature.html
  image="images/team.jpg"
  link="team"
  title="Our Team"
  text=text
%}

## Our goals

1. Build high-quality **integrated atlases**

2.  Maximize the **utility of single-cell reference atlases**
  - Specification: We aim to develop tools and pipelines to leverage atlas power in the number of represented cells and individuals to generate new insights. This includes tools to:
    - Compare model systems
    - Analyse new data
    - Model inter-individual variation
    - Model disease processes or progression

3. Determine **single-cell best practices by benchmarking**

4. Better understand **patient variability in pulmonary diseases**

5. Derive relevant **clinical/translational insights from single-cell data**

## Our values

### Scientific values:

- **Dare to innovate**: When beneficial, try a new approach instead of the tried and true that is limited. Leverage the lab’s expertise to test new approaches that solve that challenges you are facing

- **Science before ego**: We want to produce science that is robust, reproducible and open. If the data shows we are wrong, that is okay. We take time to ensure usability of our tools so that scientific goals can be achieved also outside our lab.

- **Constructive criticism is caring**: We are our own strongest critics. We aim to ask for feedback from our peers, and we are willing to be forthcoming with our own feedback. We value the time spent by others to help us improve our work.

### Interpersonal values:

- **Communicate with respect**: Communication is central to our lab culture as it is the instrument how we make each other better. To ensure the information we want to convey is received well, we strive to choose our words in such a way that treats our peers with respect.

- **Diversity in thinking and representation**: Scientific challenges are complex. This complexity is best tackled from multiple points of view. Therefore, bringing together diverse ways of thinking is crucial for scientific progress. Similarly, tolerance to diverse backgrounds is a core human value. We hold diversity of all kinds in high regard, because this helps us be better scientists and people.

- **Have fun:** If science isn’t fun, we’re doing something wrong!
